---
layout: post
title: VCoin looks around, straightens its back and pivots
modified:
categories:
excerpt: A shift in perspective is required
tags: [v, curation]
image:
  feature:
---

# “VCoin” was a poor choice of name

As we learned a little while ago, courtesy of the USPTO:

> Word Mark VCOIN
>
> Goods and Services  IC 009. US 021 023 026 036 038. G & S: Computer software for processing electronic payments and for transferring funds to and from others; authentication software for controlling access to and communications with computers and computer networks; integrated software packages, namely, for use as an online virtual currency trading platform; computer application software for use as an online virtual currency trading platform for mobile and non-mobile devices in the field of virtual currency; computer e-commerce software and mobile application software allowing users to conduct electronic transactions in designated online marketplaces with digital and virtual currencies via a global computer network; computer software and software development tools for use in developing further software and software applications in the field of virtual currency; computer software for electronically trading virtual currency
>
> Owner   (APPLICANT) VCoin Limited LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY HONG KONG Unit 315-6, 3/F, Building 12W, Phase 3 Hong Kong Science Park HONG KONG Shatin,N.
>
> Type of Mark    TRADEMARK

VCoin Limited are a Hong Kong company who are expanding their business operations in the United States and so are legimately and reasonably seeking to trademark the Word Mark “VCoin”.

Checking the HK company registration records reveals that the name “VCoin” was already a cryptocurrency trademark when VCoin was created.

And, as a peer observed:

> “A few weeks ago I was searching for potential domain names, company names etc. I found vcoin to be very generic and most forms of it were taken.”

Not only is the name properly and rightfully trademarked in Hong Kong and soon also in the US but is in common use all over the place and likely to be already trademarked in a whole host of legal jurisdictions.

The situation seems quite clear. For putative VCN-based efforts, practical concerns militate a change of name. The principle of least surprise suggests a minimal change will be most effective.

No legal jurisdiction permits single letters to be registered as protected trademarks. This leaves the space open to colonisation by decentralised organisations with a global span such as ... V.

Yes, V. Just V. Okay, the V construct, if you like - the VCN trading symbol remains unchanged and “v-construct” is the label that I’m giving to the Github repository. The adventurous and slightly challenging stance is a Teal characteristic and its minimalism is effective.

A small group of peers have been trialling this nomenclature for several months and is pleased to report that it just works.

So I offer you a new perspective: V, an emergent collective intelligence emanating from a pure-Teal peer-to-peer network. (C’mon, this *is* 2016, after all.)

